# About

Access, download and plot weather data from the following APIs:
- Darksky (https://darksky.net/dev)
- OpenWeatherMap (https://openweathermap.org/api)

Both sources require an API key to get access to the data. However, when dealing with data already downloaded as files and stored locally, the API key is not necessary.

# Install

### Method 1

One step, non-editable install from a terminal:
```bash
pip install git+https://cameleon.univ-lyon1.fr/ovincent/weather-ov
```

### Method 2


- Clone the project with *git* or download directly the files into a folder.
- In a terminal, `cd` into the project or folder, where the __setup.py__ is, then
```bash
pip install .
```
(for development: `pip install -e .`).

# Quick Start

```python
from weatherov import Weather, plot

# source can be 'owm' or 'darksky'
w = Weather(location=(45.77, 4.84), source='owm', api_key='xyz')

# Get raw data from the API (source-dependent)
# --------------------------------------------

w.url()    # get URL at which to downlowd data
w.fetch()  # get data as a dictionary

# By default, current data; get historical data by passing a datetime.datetime:

from datetime import datetime, timedelta
from pytz import timezone
tz = timezone('Europe/Paris')
date = tz.localize(datetime(2021, 1, 15, 12))  # 15 Jan. 2021 at Noon in Paris timezone

w.url(date)
w.fetch(date)

# Get and plot formatted, source-independent data
# -----------------------------------------------

w.current()   # current weather conditions
w.hourly()    # hourly data for present day, including forecast

# It is also possible to access historical data:
w.current(date)
w.hourly(date, until=date + timedelta(days=3))

# Plot hourly data:
plot(w.hourly())
```

There are also options to download the data directly as .json files in a folder and work from this data.

For detailed examples, see the *Examples.ipynb* notebook.


# Contents


## Weather class

The following methods are available from a `Weather` object:

- For raw, source-dependent data:
    - `url()` and copy-paste the link into a browser (returns url link)
    - `fetch()` to get the raw data from the internet (returns dict of data)
    - `save()` to save the raw data into a .json file
    - `load()` to get the raw data from a .json file (returns dict of data)

- For formatted, source-independent data for analysis and plotting:
    - `current()`: returns a dict of values (data at specific time)
    - `hourly()`: returns a dict of lists of values (hourly data), can be used in `plot()` directly.

- To download data from the API into local files, possibly in batch:
    - `download()`: saves API data in .json format in a folder (threaded for multiple requests at the same time).
    - `missing_days()`: checks if there are any missing files of data between specified dates in a folder.
    - `download_missing_days()`: same as above, but also downloads the missing data in the folder.

*Note:* To access data from downloaded files, use `load()` to get raw data, and `hourly(path=...)` to get formatted data.

## Plotting weather data

- `plot()`: takes formatted hourly data from `hourly()` (either using the API or downloaded files) as input.

## Notes

- If one gets the error `KeyError: 'hourly'`, it's likely that the data is not
downloaded correctly or inexistent. Check that the API key is correct and/or
test the download URL generated by `url()` in a browser.

- More data might be available compared to the ones returned by the functions
used here, see e.g. the raw dictionary returned by functions like `fetch()` or `load()`.

- For tests, the module `weatherov.locations` stores coordinates of some cities/locations as a `coordinates` dictionary.


# Other information

## Python requirements

- Python >= 3.6

## Package requirements

- requests
- matplotlib
- pandas (something about date formatting and registration with matplotlib)

## Author

Olivier Vincent

(ovinc.py@gmail.com)

## License

BSD 3-Clause (see *LICENSE* file)
